# Fertilizer particles recognizer
## Introduction
Fertilizer is any material of natural (organic fertilizers) or synthetic (inorganic, chemical or mineral fertilizers) origin that is supplied to soil or to plant tissues in order to provide nutrients to a crop - food or building blocks for plant body. The most widely spread form of industrially manufactured fertilizers is spherical or irregularly shaped granule. The quality of a commercially available fertilizer is measured by a number of parameters. Among the most important features are chemical content and granulometric composition. Generally, commercial batches of inorganic fertilizers are randomly tested along supply chain to monitor their consistence against declared specifications. In some cases, there is a need in alternative rapid test of a product, due to lack of resources (financial and temporal) for a proper laboratory inspection. As such, measurement of particle sizes distribution based on visual analysis of digital images of fertilizer granules, might become a helpful tool for inspectors, managers and farmers.

This project is performed by me enthusiastically and began with a thought, if I can assess particle sizes of a random fertilizer sample by simply pouring it onto a surface and making a picture with a smartphone camera. Though, by this time, this method, being indirect, still requires further development in order to decrease the level of uncertainty, related to errors generated at various levels.

## Workflow
I started with making pictures of spills of various fertilizers. Here is a couple of images as an example.
